[DEBUG-5719] Add Debug with Bits page to Live Debugger docs (#37067)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/live_debugger/debug-with-bits.md

---
title: Debug with Bits
description: Use Bits AI Dev Agent to create and manage Live Debugger sessions through a conversational interface.
further_reading:
- link: "/bits_ai/bits_ai_dev_agent/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Bits AI Dev Agent"
- link: "/tracing/live_debugger/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Live Debugger"
- link: "/dynamic_instrumentation/sensitive-data-scrubbing/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Sensitive Data Scrubbing"
---

{{< beta-callout url="https://www.datadoghq.com/product-preview/live-debugger/" >}}
Debug with Bits is in Preview. Request access to join the waiting list.
{{< /beta-callout >}}

## Overview

> Debug with Bits lets you use [Bits AI Dev Agent][5] to inspect running services through a conversational interface. Instead of manually navigating the Live Debugger UI, you can describe what you want to investigate, and Bits places logpoints, retrieves captured data, and helps you interpret results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Debug with Bits lets you use [Bits AI Dev Agent][5] to inspect running services through a conversational interface. Instead of manually navigating the Live Debugger UI, you can describe what you want to investigate. Bits will place logpoints, retrieve captured variable snapshots, and help you interpret results.
```

{{< img src="tracing/live_debugger/debug-with-bits-coupon-session.png" alt="Bits AI Dev Agent debugging session showing root cause analysis and a logpoint placed in the discount calculation code" style="width:100%;" >}}

> All debugging activity runs through [Live Debugger][1], so the same [permissions][2], rate limits, auto-expiry rules, and [sensitive data scrubbing][3] apply regardless of whether you create logpoints manually or through Bits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All debugging activity runs through [Live Debugger][1], so the same [permissions][2], rate limits, auto-expiry rules, and [sensitive data scrubbing][3] apply whether you create logpoints manually or through Bits.
```

## Requirements

Before using Debug with Bits:

- [Live Debugger][1] must be enabled for the target service. See [Requirements and setup][1] for details.

> - Your account needs the [permissions][2] required to use Live Debugger, including read, write, and variable-capture permissions for the target environment.

Reviewer 2: do we want this to be exhaustive? (i never know how to write customer facing examples)

if not going for exhaustive this is fine and catches the big ones. if going for exhaustive, logsreaddata and logsreadindexdata are needed for get_datadog_snapshot: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-source/blob/main/domains/ai_developer_workflows/apps/apis/live-debugger-mcp/tools/registry.go#L109-L110

Reviewer: Oh good point! We haven't cited the other product permissions previously, but we probably should.

Reviewer: I'll actually do this change in a separate PR along with the rest of the LD permission updates!

> - [Bits AI Dev Agent][5] must be available in your organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Bits AI Dev Agent][5] must be available in your organization.
- [Source Code Integration][6] must be set up for the target service.

```

## Available actions

Bits can perform the following Live Debugger actions during a debugging session:

| Action | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| Discover services | Find and validate services available for debugging in a given environment. |
| Create logpoints | Add logpoints to a running service at a specific code location. |
| List session logpoints | Show the logpoints active in a Debug Session. |
| Disable logpoints | Disable all logpoints in a session. |
| Retrieve snapshot data | Fetch captured variable values and execution context from an active logpoint. |

> Logpoints created by Bits follow the same rules as manually created logpoints: they are read-only, non-blocking, and auto-expire after a configurable duration between 10 minutes and 48 hours (default: 60 minutes). Bits cannot modify application state or alter control flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Logpoints created by Bits follow the same rules as manually created logpoints: they are read-only, non-blocking, and auto-expire after a configurable duration between 10 minutes and 2 days (default: 60 minutes). Bits cannot modify application state or alter control flow.
```

Reviewer 2: note: it is 2 days in the mcp: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-source/blob/main/domains/ai_developer_workflows/apps/apis/live-debugger-mcp/tools/create_logpoint.go#L758 

we can change that if we want though!

## Get started

1. Navigate to the [Live Debugger page][4].

> 2. Open the Bits AI Dev Agent chat and describe the issue you want to investigate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Debug with Bits chatbox, describe the issue you want to investigate. Select the target service and environment before submitting the prompt.  
```

> 3. Bits identifies the relevant service and environment and proposes logpoint locations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Bits will evaluate the connected source code repository, analyze other available signals, and ask follow up questions to form a hypothesis.

1. Bits will configure and activate up to 5 logpoints at relevant code locations to capture the specific data it needs.
```

> 4. Review and confirm the proposed logpoints. Bits creates them and monitors for captured data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Bits retrieves and analyzes the logs and variable snapshots from the active logpoints to validate its hypothesis and formulate its response.
```

> 5. When Bits retrieves snapshot data, review the captured variable values and execution context in the chat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Review the response from Bits and (optionally) drill into the details of the logpoints and collected data points. Often Bits will suggest a code fix based on its findings. Reply to the Bits chat to continue the investigation as needed.
```

> 6. Ask Bits to disable the session, or let the logpoints expire automatically.

Reviewer: 1. Bits typically disables the logpoints it creates as soon as it has retrieved the data it needs. Also, logpoints auto-expire after the session's set time period. Disable logpoints at any time by asking Bits or clicking the Disable button on an individual logpoint or the session.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Bits typically disables the logpoints it creates as soon as it has retrieved the data it needs. Also, logpoints auto-expire after the session's set time period. Disable logpoints at any time by asking Bits or clicking the Disable button on an individual logpoint or the session.
```

---
title: Debug with Bits
description: Use Bits AI Dev Agent to create and manage Live Debugger sessions through a conversational interface.
further_reading:
- link: "/bits_ai/bits_ai_dev_agent/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Bits AI Dev Agent"
- link: "/tracing/live_debugger/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Live Debugger"
- link: "/dynamic_instrumentation/sensitive-data-scrubbing/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Sensitive Data Scrubbing"
---

{{< beta-callout url="https://www.datadoghq.com/product-preview/live-debugger/" >}}
Debug with Bits is in Preview. Request access to join the waiting list.
{{< /beta-callout >}}

## Overview

Debug with Bits lets you use [Bits AI Dev Agent][5] to inspect running services through a conversational interface. Instead of manually navigating the Live Debugger UI, you can describe what you want to investigate. Bits places logpoints, retrieves captured variable snapshots, and helps you interpret results.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Debug with Bits
description: Use Bits AI Dev Agent to create and manage Live Debugger sessions through a conversational interface.
further_reading:
- link: "/bits_ai/bits_ai_dev_agent/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Bits AI Dev Agent"
- link: "/tracing/live_debugger/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Live Debugger"
- link: "/dynamic_instrumentation/sensitive-data-scrubbing/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Sensitive Data Scrubbing"
---

{{< beta-callout url="https://www.datadoghq.com/product-preview/live-debugger/" >}}
Debug with Bits is in Preview. Request access to join the waiting list.
{{< /beta-callout >}}

## Overview

> Debug with Bits lets you use [Bits AI Dev Agent][5] to inspect running services through a conversational interface. Instead of manually navigating the Live Debugger UI, you can describe what you want to investigate. Bits will place logpoints, retrieve captured variable snapshots, and help you interpret results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Debug with Bits lets you use [Bits AI Dev Agent][5] to inspect running services through a conversational interface. Instead of manually navigating the Live Debugger UI, you can describe what you want to investigate. Bits places logpoints, retrieves captured variable snapshots, and helps you interpret results.
```

> {{< img src="tracing/live_debugger/debug-with-bits-coupon-session.png" alt="Bits AI Dev Agent debugging session showing root cause analysis and a logpoint placed in the discount calculation code" style="width:100%;" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> All debugging activity runs through [Live Debugger][1], so the same [permissions][2], rate limits, auto-expiry rules, and [sensitive data scrubbing][3] apply whether you create logpoints manually or through Bits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All debugging activity runs through [Live Debugger][1], so the same [permissions][2], rate limits, auto-expiry rules, and [sensitive data scrubbing][3] apply.
```

## Requirements

Before using Debug with Bits:

- [Live Debugger][1] must be enabled for the target service. See [Requirements and setup][1] for details.
- Your account needs the [permissions][2] required to use Live Debugger, including read, write, and variable-capture permissions for the target environment.
- [Bits AI Dev Agent][5] must be available in your organization.
- [Source Code Integration][6] must be set up for the target service.

## Available actions

Bits can perform the following Live Debugger actions during a debugging session:

| Action | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| Discover services | Find and validate services available for debugging in a given environment. |
| Create logpoints | Add logpoints to a running service at a specific code location. |
| List session logpoints | Show the logpoints active in a Debug Session. |
| Disable logpoints | Disable all logpoints in a session. |
| Retrieve snapshot data | Fetch captured variable values and execution context from an active logpoint. |

> Logpoints created by Bits follow the same rules as manually created logpoints: they are read-only, non-blocking, and auto-expire after a configurable duration between 10 minutes and 2 days (default: 60 minutes). Bits cannot modify application state or alter control flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Logpoints created by Bits follow the same rules as manually created logpoints. They are read-only, non-blocking, and auto-expire after the configured time limit - between 10 minutes and 2 days (default: 60 minutes). Bits cannot modify application state or alter control flow.
```

## Get started

1. Navigate to the [Live Debugger page][4].
1. In the Debug with Bits chatbox, describe the issue you want to investigate. Select the target service and environment before submitting the prompt.  

> 1.  Bits evaluates the connected source code repository, analyze other available signals, and ask follow up questions to form a hypothesis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Bits analyzes relevant code paths in the connected source code repository and may ask follow up questions to form a hypothesis.
```

> 1.  Bits will evaluate the connected source code repository, analyze other available signals, and ask follow up questions to form a hypothesis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Bits evaluates the connected source code repository, analyze other available signals, and ask follow up questions to form a hypothesis.
```

> 1. Bits will configure and activate up to 5 logpoints at relevant code locations to capture the specific data it needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Bits configures and activates up to 5 logpoints at relevant code locations to capture the specific data it needs.
```

1. Bits retrieves and analyzes the logs and variable snapshots from the active logpoints to validate its hypothesis and formulate its response.

> 1. Review the response from Bits and (optionally) drill into the details of the logpoints, captured data, and any code fixes suggested. Reply to the chat to continue the investigation as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Review the response from Bits and (optionally) explore the details of the logpoints, captured data, and any code fixes suggested. Reply to the chat to continue the investigation as needed.
```

> 1. Review the response from Bits and (optionally) drill into the details of the logpoints it created, specific snapshots or log events it highlights, and - when relevant - the code fix it suggests. Reply to the chat to continue the investigation as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Review the response from Bits and (optionally) drill into the details of the logpoints, captured data, and any code fixes suggested. Reply to the chat to continue the investigation as needed.
```

1. Bits typically disables the logpoints it creates as soon as it has retrieved the data it needs. Also, logpoints auto-expire after the session's set time period. Disable logpoints at any time by asking Bits or clicking the Disable button on an individual logpoint or the session.

## Notes

> **Multi-version environments**: When multiple code versions are deployed in the target environment and the target file differs between versions, Bits asks you to confirm the target version before placing a logpoint. This prevents logpoints from landing at incorrect line numbers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Multi-version environments**: When multiple code versions are deployed in the target environment, the target file may differ between versions. In that case, Bits asks you to confirm the target version before placing a logpoint. This prevents logpoints from landing at incorrect line numbers.
```

---
title: Debug with Bits
description: Use Bits AI Dev Agent to create and manage Live Debugger sessions through a conversational interface.
further_reading:
- link: "/bits_ai/bits_ai_dev_agent/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Bits AI Dev Agent"
- link: "/tracing/live_debugger/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Live Debugger"
- link: "/dynamic_instrumentation/sensitive-data-scrubbing/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Sensitive Data Scrubbing"
---

> {{< beta-callout url="https://www.datadoghq.com/product-preview/live-debugger/" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< beta-callout url="https://www.datadoghq.com/product-preview/debug-with-bits/" >}}
```

Debug with Bits is in Preview. Request access to join the waiting list.
{{< /beta-callout >}}

## Overview

> Debug with Bits brings a conversational interface to Live Debugger for investigating running services through natural language. Describe what you want to investigate and Bits does the work: placing logpoints, retrieving variable snapshots, and interpreting results. Once Bits identifies a root cause, it can also suggest code fixes based on its findings.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Debug with Bits brings a conversational interface to Live Debugger for investigating running services through natural language. Describe what you want to investigate, and Bits places logpoints, retrieves variable snapshots, and interprets results. After Bits identifies a root cause, it can suggest code fixes based on its findings.
```

> All debugging activity runs through [Live Debugger][1], so the same [permissions][2], rate limits, auto-expiry rules, and [sensitive data scrubbing][3] apply.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All debugging activity runs through [Live Debugger][1], so the same [permissions][2], rate limits, auto-expiry behavior, and [sensitive data scrubbing][3] apply.
```

<div class="alert alert-info">
Debug with Bits uses <a href="/bits_ai/bits_ai_dev_agent/">Bits AI Dev Agent</a>, which may impact billing.
</div>

> ## Requirements

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

Before using Debug with Bits:

- [Live Debugger][1] must be enabled for the target service. See [Requirements and setup][1] for details.

> - Your account needs the [permissions][2] required to use Live Debugger, including read, write, and variable-capture permissions for the target environment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Your account must have the [permissions][2] required to use Live Debugger, including read, write, and variable-capture permissions for the target environment.
```

- [Bits AI Dev Agent][5] must be available in your organization.
- [Source Code Integration][6] must be set up for the target service.

## Available actions

Bits can perform the following Live Debugger actions during a debugging session:

| Action | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| Discover services | Find and validate services available for debugging in a given environment. |
| Create logpoints | Add logpoints to a running service at a specific code location. |
| List session logpoints | Show the logpoints active in a Debug Session. |

> | Disable logpoints | Disable all logpoints in a session. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Disable logpoints | Disable all logpoints in a Debug Session. |
```

| Retrieve snapshot data | Fetch captured variable values and execution context from an active logpoint. |

> Logpoints created by Bits follow the same rules as manually created logpoints. They are read-only, non-blocking, and auto-expire after the configured time limit - between 10 minutes and 2 days (default: 60 minutes). Bits cannot modify application state or alter control flow.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Logpoints created by Bits follow the same rules as manually created logpoints. They are read-only, non-blocking, and expire automatically after the configured time limit (10 minutes to 2 days; default: 60 minutes). Bits cannot modify application state or alter control flow.
```

> ## Get started

Reviewer 3: Steps 1-2 and 6 are user actions; steps 3-5 describe what Bits does automatically. Numbered steps imply sequential user actions, so mixing them conflates "do this" with "this happens." I'm thinking we can try something like:

1. user action
2. user action

Content about what Bits does

3. user action
4. user action

Thoughts?

> ## Get started

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Start a debugging session
```

> 1. Navigate to the [Live Debugger page][4].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Go to [Live Debugger][4] in Datadog.
```

1. In the Debug with Bits chatbox, describe the issue you want to investigate. Select the target service and environment before submitting the prompt.  

> 1.  Bits analyzes relevant code paths in the connected source code repository and may ask follow up questions to form a hypothesis.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In the Debug with Bits chatbox, describe the issue you want to investigate. Select the target service and environment before submitting the prompt.
1. Bits analyzes relevant code paths in the connected source code repository and may ask follow-up questions to form a hypothesis.
```

1. Bits configures and activates up to 5 logpoints at relevant code locations to capture the specific data it needs.
1. Bits retrieves and analyzes the logs and variable snapshots from the active logpoints to validate its hypothesis and formulate its response.

> 1. Review the response from Bits and (optionally) explore the details of the logpoints, captured data, and any code fixes suggested. Reply to the chat to continue the investigation as needed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Review the response from Bits and, optionally, explore the details of the logpoints, captured data, and any code fixes suggested. Reply to the chat to continue the investigation as needed.
```

> 1. Bits typically disables the logpoints it creates as soon as it has retrieved the data it needs. Also, logpoints auto-expire after the session's set time period. Disable logpoints at any time by asking Bits or clicking the Disable button on an individual logpoint or the session.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. To disable logpoints at any time, ask Bits or click the **Disable** button on an individual logpoint or the session.

**Note**: Bits typically disables the logpoints it creates as soon as it has retrieved the data it needs. Logpoints also expire automatically after the configured time limit.
```

> ## Notes

Reviewer 3: Trying for something more specific

```suggestion
## Behavior and limitations
```

**Multi-version environments**: When multiple code versions are deployed in the target environment, the target file may differ between versions. In that case, Bits asks you to confirm the target version before placing a logpoint. This prevents logpoints from landing at incorrect line numbers.

**Language support**: Some features vary by language. For example, condition expressions are not supported for all runtimes. Bits notifies you when a requested feature is not available for the target service's language.

> **Sensitive data**: The same [sensitive data scrubbing][3] that applies to manually created logpoints applies to logpoints created by Bits. In production environments, non-numeric and non-Boolean captured values are redacted by default.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Sensitive data**: The [sensitive data scrubbing][3] behavior that applies to manually created logpoints also applies to logpoints created by Bits. In production environments, non-numeric and non-Boolean captured values are redacted by default.
```

---
title: Debug with Bits
description: Use Bits Code to create and manage Live Debugger sessions through a conversational interface.
further_reading:
- link: "/bits_ai/bits_ai_dev_agent/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Bits Code"
- link: "/tracing/live_debugger/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Live Debugger"
- link: "/dynamic_instrumentation/sensitive-data-scrubbing/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Sensitive Data Scrubbing"
---

{{< beta-callout url="https://www.datadoghq.com/product-preview/debug-with-bits/" >}}
Debug with Bits is in Preview. Request access to join the waiting list.
{{< /beta-callout >}}

## Overview

> Debug with Bits brings a conversational interface to Live Debugger for investigating running services through natural language. Describe what you want to investigate, and Bits places logpoints, retrieves variable snapshots, and interprets results. After Bits identifies a root cause, it can suggest code fixes based on its findings.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Debug with Bits brings a conversational interface to Live Debugger for investigating running services through natural language. Describe what you want to investigate, and Bits places logpoints, retrieves variable snapshots, and interprets results. After Bits identifies a root cause, it can suggest code fixes.
```

| List session logpoints | Show the logpoints active in a Debug Session. |
| Disable logpoints | Disable all logpoints in a Debug Session. |
| Retrieve snapshot data | Fetch captured variable values and execution context from an active logpoint. |

Logpoints created by Bits follow the same rules as manually created logpoints. They are read-only, non-blocking, and expire automatically after the configured time limit (10 minutes to 2 days; default: 60 minutes). Bits cannot modify application state or alter control flow.

## Start a debugging session

1. Go to [Live Debugger][4] in Datadog.
1. In the Debug with Bits chatbox, describe the issue you want to investigate. Select the target service and environment before submitting the prompt.

   Bits then works through the investigation automatically:
   - It analyzes relevant code paths in the connected source code repository and may ask follow-up questions to form a hypothesis.
   - It configures and activates up to 5 logpoints at relevant code locations to capture the specific data it needs.
   - It retrieves and analyzes the logs and variable snapshots from the active logpoints to validate its hypothesis and formulate its response.

> 1. Review the response from Bits and, optionally, explore the details of the logpoints, captured data, and any code fixes suggested. Reply to the chat to continue the investigation as needed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Review the response from Bits and, optionally, explore the details of the logpoints, captured data, and any code fixes suggested. Reply in the chat to continue the investigation as needed.
```

1. To disable logpoints at any time, ask Bits or click the **Disable** button on an individual logpoint or the session.

> **Note**: Bits typically disables the logpoints it creates as soon as it has retrieved the data it needs. Logpoints also expire automatically after the configured time limit.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Note**: Bits typically disables the logpoints it creates as soon as it retrieves the data it needs. Logpoints also expire automatically after the configured time limit.
```
